Add UIUC fuel consumption analysis (#14)
arfc/2020-fairhurst-hydrogen-production: ans-abstract/abstract.tex

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%
\section{Introduction}

> Climate change presents a threat that we should address swiftly. Decarbonizing the electric grid through variable renewable energy and nuclear power seems to be a remedy. Unfortunately, a carbon neutral electric grid will be insufficient to halt climate change because transportation contributes more to \gls{GHG} emissions than electricity. As seen in Figure \ref{fig:ghg}, transportation produced the most \glspl{GHG} in the US in 2017. Thus, decarbonizing transportation underpins global carbon reduction. Accordingly, the \gls{UIUC} has committed to the Illinois Climate Action Plan (iCAP) which aims to attain carbon neutrality by 2050 \cite{university_of_illinois_at_urbana-champaign_illlinois_2015}.

Reviewer: Illinois is spelled wrong in the citation ``\cite{...illlinois}``
I'm not sure how you generated the bibliography, you may want to check the Zotero metadata.

Author: good catch

> Climate change presents a threat that we should address swiftly. Decarbonizing the electric grid through variable renewable energy and nuclear power seems to be a remedy. Unfortunately, a carbon neutral electric grid will be insufficient to halt climate change because transportation contributes more to \gls{GHG} emissions than electricity. As seen in Figure \ref{fig:ghg}, transportation produced the most \glspl{GHG} in the US in 2017. Thus, decarbonizing transportation underpins global carbon reduction. Accordingly, the \gls{UIUC} has committed to the Illinois Climate Action Plan (iCAP) which aims to attain carbon neutrality by 2050 \cite{university_of_illinois_at_urbana-champaign_illlinois_2015}.

Reviewer 2: No change necessary this time, but for the future, I strongly recommend hardwrapping your text at 70 or 80 characters. It makes these changesets readable.

Author: Sorry about that! I will be more careful about that in the future.

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.7\linewidth]{figures/total-ghg-2019-caption.jpg}
	\hfill
	\caption{Total U.S. GHG Emissions by Economic Sector in 2017 \cite{us_epa_sources_2020}.}
	\label{fig:ghg}
\end{figure}

One possible solution to reduce carbon emissions, and even achieve a net zero carbon production, is to develop a hydrogen economy as the state of California is currently doing \cite{brown_economic_2013}. 
Although using hydrogen does not produce CO$_2$, any hydrogen production method is only as carbon-free as the source of energy it relies on (electric, heat, or both).
Nuclear reactors present a clean energy option to produce H$_2$.

> Micro-reactors are an innovative technology attractive for hydrogen production. Several micro-reactor designs are currently under development in the United States. This type of reactor has three main features: factory fabricated, transportable, and self-regulating. All of the components are fully assembled in a factory and shipped out to location, reducing capital costs and enabling rapid deployment. Simple design concepts eliminate the need for many specialized operators. Moreover, they utilize passive safety systems that prevent overheating or meltdown \cite{us-doe_ultimate_2019}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Micro-reactors are an innovative technology attractive for hydrogen production. Several micro-reactor designs are currently under development in the United States. These reactor concepts have three main features: they are factory fabricated, transportable, and self-regulating. All of the components are fully assembled in a factory and shipped out to the generation site, reducing capital costs and enabling rapid deployment. Simplified design concepts eliminate the need for many specialized operators and maintenance staff. Moreover, they utilize passive safety systems that prevent overheating or meltdown \cite{us-doe_ultimate_2019}.
```

\subsection{Electrolysis}

> Electrolysis uses an electric current to split water into hydrogen and oxygen, Figure \ref{fig:electro}. The reaction takes place in a unit called an electrolyzer. Electrolyzers consist of an anode and a cathode separated by an electrolyte. Different electrolyzers function in slightly different ways. A few types are polymer electrolyte membrane, alkaline, and solid oxide electrolyzers \cite{doe_office_of_energy_efficiency_and_renewable_energy_hydrogen_2020}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Electrolysis uses an electric current to split water into hydrogen and oxygen as shown in Figure \ref{fig:electro}. The reaction takes place in a unit called an electrolyzer. Electrolyzers consist of an anode and a cathode separated by an electrolyte. A few classes of electrolyzer technologies, distinguished by their materials and functionality, include polymer electrolyte membrane, alkaline, and solid oxide electrolyzers \cite{doe_office_of_energy_efficiency_and_renewable_energy_hydrogen_2020}.
```

\section{Methodology}
\label{method}

> A gasoline gallon equivalent (GGE) is the amount of fuel that can generate equivalent energy to a gallon of gasoline. One kilogram of hydrogen is equivalent to one gallon of gasoline \cite{doe_office_of_energy_efficiency_and_renewable_energy_hydrogen_2020}. Burning a gallon of gasoline produces 19.64 lbs of CO$_2$ \cite{us_energy_information_administration_how_2014}. 

Reviewer 2: No change needed here, but I recommend the use of the glossaries package and an acros file to ensure that you always expand an acronym on the first use, and just the first use. Since you're already using those capabilities elsewhere in the file.... why not here? Inconsistency might get you in a bit of trouble some time.

Author: You are totally right. I tried to address that concern in the commit 7860b2e.

Table \ref{tab:h2req} lists the mass of hydrogen required to supply the MTD fleet. Average gallons per day refers to the total amount of fuel consumed in a year averaged in 365 days. 

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=1.05\linewidth]{figures/mtd-fuel-consumption.png}
	\hfill
	\caption{Diesel gallons consumed each day by MTD from July 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019 \cite{mtd_irecords_2019}.}
	\label{fig:mtdfuel}
\end{figure}

The UIUC fleet includes both passenger and service vehicles \cite{uiuc_institute_for_sustainability_energy_and_environment_increase_2020}. The calculations consider only the portion of the fleet that operates in town and consumes gasoline \cite{uiuc_personnal_communication}. Figure \ref{fig:uiucfuel} presents the daily consumption of unleaded gasoline by the UIUC fleet in a year. The data go from January 1st of 2019 to December 31st of 2019. The fleet also uses diesel and ethanol but in smaller proportions that future analysis will take into account.

> Table \ref{tab:h2req} lists the hydrogen required to supply the UIUC fleet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Table \ref{tab:h2req} summarizes the hydrogen required to supply the UIUC fleet based on this accounting.
```

\begin{figure}[H]
	\centering
	\includegraphics[width=0.95\linewidth]{figures/uiuc-unleaded.png}
	\hfill
	\caption{Gasoline gallons consumed each day by the UIUC fleet from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2019 \cite{uiuc_personnal_communication}.}
	\label{fig:uiucfuel}
\end{figure}

\begin{table}[H]
	\centering
    \caption{Hydrogen required and CO$_2$ produced by MTD and UIUC fleets.}
    \label{tab:h2req}
\begin{tabular}{l|rr}
\hline
                   & MTD (Diesel)   & UIUC (Gasoline)  \\ \hline
Average gal/day    & 1,971.8        & 251.8            \\
kg of H$_2$/day    & 2,228.2        & 251.8            \\
CO$_2$ (lbs/day)   & 44,129.5       & 4,945.3          \\
gal/year           & 719,717.6      & 91,925.1         \\
kg of H$_2$/year   & 813,280.9      & 91,925.1         \\
CO$_2$ (lbs/year)  & 16,107,279.9   & 1,805,408.9      \\ \hline
\end{tabular}
\end{table}

Table \ref{tab:h2req} also shows the CO$_2$ emitted by MTD and UIUC fleets.

> Both fleets combined would consume 2480 kg/day of H$_2$. A micro-reactor feeding an iodine-sulfur thermochemical cycle would need 10 MWth of power to meet that daily average demand of hydrogen.

Reviewer 2: I have not been shown any analysis that connects this number of kg/day to the 10 MWth estimate here. It seems to come out of thin air.  If you have arrived at this number through a calculation, great, please include that calculation here. Otherwise, without analysis to back it up, drop this guesstimate.

```suggestion
Combined, these fleets would consume 2480 kg/day of H$_2$. 
```

Reviewer 2: If this is connected to the assumptions from above, where mentoined the NGNP design goals were to demonstrat 50MWth = 500 kg/h, then a 10MWth reactor will give you 100kg/h, which is 2400kg/day... But, that demonstration never happened, and a need of 2480 is closer to 11MWth in any case.

The scale-up numbers from the other paper are also undemonstrated plans. These numbers were never physically achieved.
